BASE TOOL and Structure of the System

How to Make It Simple
1. Start Small
Begin with just one feature, like adding FD details. Once you have that working, move on to displaying them, and then reminders. You don’t need to do everything at once.

Example:

Step 1: Create a database and set up the Add FD functionality.
Step 2: Display the FDs in a simple table using Tkinter.
Step 3: Add reminder functionality.
2. Work on One Window at a Time
Tkinter lets you design each part of the app in separate windows or sections.

Main Window: The hub with buttons like "Add FD" and "View FDs."
Add FD Window: A form to enter details.
View FDs Window: A table to display data.
Reminder Check: A simple popup or message.
3. Use Built-in Libraries
You don’t need fancy tools or complex libraries—Tkinter and SQLite are enough for a basic app. For example:

Database: SQLite is super easy to use. It’s just a file, no server required.
GUI: Tkinter is included with Python, so no installation is needed.
How to Approach Learning
Basic Tkinter Layout
Learn how to create buttons, labels, and input fields with Tkinter. Example:

python
Copy code
import tkinter as tk

root = tk.Tk()
tk.Label(root, text="Hello, Tkinter!").pack()
tk.Button(root, text="Click Me", command=root.quit).pack()
root.mainloop()
Connect Tkinter to a Database
Example of saving form data to SQLite:

python
Copy code
import sqlite3
import tkinter as tk

def save_data():
    conn = sqlite3.connect("example.db")
    cursor = conn.cursor()
    cursor.execute("CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS Data (name TEXT)")
    cursor.execute("INSERT INTO Data (name) VALUES (?)", (entry.get(),))
    conn.commit()
    conn.close()
    print("Data saved!")

root = tk.Tk()
entry = tk.Entry(root)
entry.pack()
tk.Button(root, text="Save", command=save_data).pack()
root.mainloop()
Add Advanced Features Gradually
Once the basics are done, add features like reminders and edit options.

Why It’s Not Hard
You Already Know Python
Since you’ve worked on Python projects before (like the water reminder), this is just a level up.

Resources Are Readily Available
You can easily find guides and examples for Tkinter and SQLite.

You Can Always Ask for Help
If you get stuck, we can troubleshoot specific parts together.